---
permalink: /research
title: Research
description: Making a Change
layout: page
---
Over the years, I’ve had the opportunity to work on a number of incredible research experiences that have allowed me to grow and develop my skills and passions. Go ahead and explore; I hope you’ll enjoy viewing my experiences as much as I enjoyed working on them.

## Research
### GENOME ARCHITECTURE INDICATES CELLULAR POTENTIAL IN EMBRYONIC STEM CELL DIFFERENTIATION
#### June 2017 - July 2017

The dynamic organization of the human genome is largely dependent on the nucleosome occupancy. Changes in nucleosome distribution allow access to the underlying DNA, and nucleosomes have been observed to transiently move along the genome as part of their role in gene expression. Important studies have mapped human nucleosome distributions genome-wide, but the role of chromatin structure in stem cell differentiation has not been addressed. I utilized an MNase-Transcription Start Site Sequence Capture method (mTSS-seq) to map the nucleosome distribution at human transcription start sites genome-wide in various h9 stem cell derivatives. Additionally, I compared sensitivity and occupancy of nucleosomes at certain time points throughout the cell line of differentiation to observe patterns between induced pluripotency and enrichment in genes. I demonstrated that nucleosome architecture and sensitivity is closely linked to cell-type specific physiology. I confirmed that nucleosome occupancy is increased in almost all 20,000 human genes recorded in the derivative cell lines. These altered nucleosome architectures are consistent between 8 out of 9 stem cell lineages indicating that the stem cell is becoming more restricted in terms of its functionality as it progresses down the differentiation pathway. I demonstrated that the nucleosome alterations are driven by the underlying DNA sequence and potentiate transcription factor binding. I concluded that DNA-directed nucleosome redistributions are widespread along the stem cell differentiation pathways. The results suggest a fundamental role for chromatin structure in cellular differentiation.

### RARE-EARTH-METAL DOPED TITANIUM DIOXIDE UPCONVERSION PHOTOCATALYSIS FOR HISTORICAL BUILDING PRESERVATION APPLICATIONS
#### June 2016 - August 2016

Many historical buildings find themselves falling prey to hazardous pollutants and destructive weather patterns. In order to preserve the cultural heritage of these buildings, certain materials exhibiting photocatalytic abilities are being obtained. These materials are able to harness sunlight and use this energy to catalyze reactions. In this experiment, a prominent photocatalyst, titanium dioxide, was observed to determine the compound’s effectiveness in degrading common pollutants. Titanium dioxide usually absorbs light found only in the visible light section of the electromagnetic spectrum. In order to improve efficiency, it was doped with rare earth metals, erbium and ytterbium.  This procedure “upconverted” lower frequency light waves to UV light waves. The presence of rare earth metals was manipulated in order to observe at what concentration pollutant degradation was the largest. The doped titanium dioxide samples were synthesized by using a hydrothermal process. Afterwards, samples were applied on travertine, a stone commonly used in the structures of historical buildings. A coating of methylene blue dye, a solution that had benzene-rings that mimicked water-based pollutants, was applied to each of the stones to study how much of the dye would degrade .  Static contact angle and water absorption tests were run to assess the relationship between water and each of the various coatings. Static contact angle tests displayed that the use of the Idrocap993 PF does influence the wettability of a surface, and water absorption tests demonstrated that both the TiO2 and Idrocap993 PF affect the penetration of liquid water into the tile.